Hello and welcome back
to the course on deep learning.
Today, we're just going to quickly cover
off the variations of long short-term memory architectures.
I think it's important so that you're at least aware
that there are other alternatives to the LSTM version
that we looked at
and that you might encounter them sometime
in your work.
So here is the standard LSTM which we discussed.
It should be a pretty comfortable fit by now
and now let's have a look at a couple of variations.
So variation number one is when you add peepholes.
So I'm just gonna go back again
so you see these lines are added
connecting these sigmoid activation functions
or these neural network layer operations.
Addtitional input is being provided.
It's the information about the current state
of the memory cell.
And that basically allows,
that's why it's called peephole,
allows these decisions about the valves to be made
with taking into account
what is actually sitting there in the memory.
Modification number two is when you take these two valves,
the forget valve and the memory valve,
and you connect them.
So let's go back.
Instead of having a separate decision for the memory valve,
now you have a combined decision
for the forget valve and the memory valve.
And basically whenever you add something into memory,
so whenever you close the memory off whenever this is zero,
this becomes the opposite.
One minus zero becomes a one,
so you have to put something in.
If you make this a one,
or close to one,
this becomes a zero and therefore you don't put anything in.
Here you just keep the old memory.
So it just makes sense to combine them sometimes.
And then another modification,
a very popular modification
called gated recurring units, GRUs, for short.
What they do is completely get rid of the C pipeline,
as you can see the memory pipeline,
and they replace it with the H,
which is the hidden pipeline,
which we had before at the bottom.
They just combine basically the two.
So now instead of having two separate values,
one for the memory and one for the hidden state,
now you have one
and it simplifies things.
So it's probably a bit less flexible,
but in terms of how many things are being controlled
and monitored, there's actually less.
And that's it.
This is how the gated recurring unit works.
As you can see,
it might look a bit more convoluted,
but in reality it is a bit simpler.
You only have this valve,
then you another valve here,
another valve here
and these two are connected as well.
So this is in essence the gated recurring unit.
The constant behind it is to get rid of the memory cell
and just have this one pipeline going through there
that takes care of everything.
So there we go, that's the three LSTM variations.
There's lots more other ones.
A good paper to check out is called
LSTM A Search Space Odyssey
by Klaus Greff and others, 2015.
So there they compared quite a few different LSTMs.
You might like this research that they did.
So there you go.
That's a short intro into the alternative architectures
of the LSTM.
And I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then, enjoy deep learning.